 iMessage API — A Developer’s Guide | Flow Skip to content What we do Pricing Guides Log in Talk to us Get started Menu What we do Pricing Guides Talk to us Log in Flow / Guides / iMessage API iMessage · Developer guide iMessage APIs, explained for developers Understand iMessage APIs, Apple Messages for Business and third-party integrations. Choose the right route for your app or AI agent. By Flow · October 7, 2026 · 6 min read Concept illustration by Flow On this page Apple’s APIs The three integration routes Agent architecture Provider checklist Delivery and webhooks Start with your app Common questions Build with Flow ↗ The key idea “iMessage API” can mean very different things. Identify the messaging route, the sending identity and the delivery behavior before designing your integration. Customers should be able to ask your app for help from the place they already communicate. For people using Apple devices, that place is often Messages. Developers searching for an iMessage API are usually trying to connect that familiar interface to a server, a support workflow or an AI agent. Before choosing an integration, be precise about the experience you want: an extension used inside Messages, a conversation with a business, or programmatic messaging through a third-party provider. Those routes have different setup and delivery assumptions. Does Apple have an iMessage API? Apple publishes a Messages framework for iMessage app extensions . It supports experiences inside the Messages app, including stickers and interactive messages. Apple’s iMessage developer overview describes this app-extension route. That framework is not a general-purpose server REST endpoint where your backend posts a phone number and sends an ordinary iMessage. Apple also offers Messages for Business , which lets customers communicate with participating businesses in Messages. Apple documents that service separately in its Messages for Business security guide . Third-party products marketed as “iMessage APIs” expose their own interfaces. Read the provider’s documentation to understand the underlying connection, operating requirements and limits. A familiar API shape does not make all of these routes equivalent. Three routes that are easy to confuse Route What you are building What to clarify iMessage app extension An experience inside Apple’s Messages app App distribution, supported devices and extension interaction Apple Messages for Business A customer-to-business messaging experience Business onboarding, provider integration and conversation entry points Third-party messaging API A server integration through that provider Sending identity, hosting requirements, supported operations and fallback behavior Choose the route around the customer workflow. If you need an interactive iOS experience, an extension may fit. If you need customer service conversations, investigate the business route. If you need a provider’s REST API, evaluate its specific mechanics and constraints before relying on it. The question to ask is: “What does my customer actually see, and how does a message travel from my backend to that conversation?” A demo that answers that question is more valuable than a feature list. How an iMessage agent works The agent architecture is independent of the channel connection. Your messaging adapter receives an inbound event, identifies the conversation and passes the request to an agent. The agent calls allowed tools against your application, then hands a reply back to the adapter. For example, a customer might ask an appointment app to move a booking. The agent needs a verified customer, a booking lookup, an availability lookup and an update operation. None of those business operations should depend on the color of the message bubble. An illustrative workflow , assuming those operations exist: Customer: Can you move my lesson to next Tuesday? Agent: Tuesday has 10 am and 3 pm available. Which would you prefer? Customer: 3 pm. Agent: I can move it to Tuesday at 3 pm. Shall I confirm? Only after the customer confirms and the backend saves the update should the agent say it is done. The conversation is an interface to the booking system; it should not become a second, contradictory record of the booking. Store business actions separately from message delivery. If the update succeeds but the reply is delayed, retry the reply without moving the booking again. This separation becomes especially useful when your app also supports WhatsApp or Telegram . What to ask an API provider Use a concrete workflow to evaluate providers. Ask them to demonstrate sending, receiving and recovery, rather than only an outbound message. Area Ask for a specific answer Connection What infrastructure or account does the connection depend on? Who maintains it? Identity Which number or business identity appears to the recipient? Can you retain it? New contacts What happens when a recipient has never written to you? Inbound events How are webhook requests authenticated, retried and ordered? Media Which attachment types and sizes work in both directions? Group chats Are groups supported, and how are participants represented? Delivery Which statuses distinguish accepted, sent, delivered and failed? Fallback Can the message change channel? How is that made visible to your app? Limits and costs What are the throughput, contact and usage limits for your expected workload? Recovery What happens during a connection interruption or provider outage? Keep the answers with your architecture notes. If a capability is important to your product, verify it against the provider’s current documentation and your own integration. Avoid copying a competitor’s limit or price into your product requirements. Design a message lifecycle A successful HTTP request is only the first step in delivery. Your application should keep the provider’s message ID and update its state as events arrive. For your own integration, a useful internal event model could look like this. It is illustrative JSON, not a Flow or Apple endpoint: { "event_id" : "evt_order_1042_1" , "channel" : "imessage" , "conversation_id" : "conversation_1042" , "message_id" : "provider_message_id" , "direction" : "inbound" , "text" : "Can I change my delivery time?" } Verify webhook authenticity before processing it. Record the event ID so duplicate delivery does not run the same action twice. Keep events for one conversation in order, and distinguish a message retry from a tool retry. If a provider falls back to another channel, preserve the actual transport in the record. Link a messaging identity to an application account through a deliberate authentication flow. A matching display name or an unverified phone number is not enough to authorize access to private orders or account settings. Build the workflow before the channel Start with your app’s API or MCP server and one customer task. Decide which information the agent can read, which operations it can perform and which changes require customer confirmation. Then connect the messaging interface around those boundaries. Flow brings your app to chat interfaces so customers can work with it conversationally. Describe your app to Flow , or talk to us about your iMessage integration requirements. For the shared backend design, read the unified messaging API guide . Frequently asked questions Is an iMessage app extension the same as a server API? No. Apple’s extension framework runs as part of an app experience inside Messages. A provider’s server API is a separate integration with its own connection and delivery behavior. Is Messages for Business the same as ordinary iMessage automation? It is a distinct Apple service for customer conversations with businesses. Evaluate its onboarding and customer experience separately from third-party APIs for ordinary messaging. Can I reuse my existing agent tools? Yes, if the tools are separated from the messaging transport. Keep the backend operations reusable, then adapt incoming events, identities and replies for each channel. Should I hard-code a provider’s payload throughout my app? Keep provider payloads at the adapter boundary. A shared conversation model makes it easier to add another interface without rewriting your business workflow. From reading to building Your app, on every chat interface. Tell Flow what your app should do in chat. Start with one useful workflow, then build from there. Get started ↗ Talk to us Keep building Explore the other guides. WhatsApp Build a WhatsApp agent that can take action Connect conversations to your API, design useful tools and handle the messaging window. Read the guide ↗ Telegram From Telegram bot to useful AI agent Set up a bot, receive updates and give your agent a dependable connection to your app. Read the guide ↗ Architecture One app. Every messaging interface. Design a shared messaging layer while keeping each channel’s identity and delivery rules. Read the guide ↗ Your app, on every chat interface. Launch on WhatsApp, iMessage and Telegram in minutes. Guides WhatsApp AI agent iMessage API Telegram AI agent Unified messaging API Start Get started Pricing FAQ Talk to a human Company Privacy Terms Contact © 2026 Flow. All rights reserved. Not affiliated with, or endorsed by, Meta, Apple, Telegram or Slack. All trademarks belong to their owners. 